---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/document-listing/chapters/5-combat-actions/"}
---

An action is a brief (done within the span of a second or two) event you perform during your turn to interact with the world around you.
- Performing actions tends to consume resources, typically steps or energy points.

Some actions are codified, the rest can be improvised. Some actions have use conditions - if those are not met, the action cannot be used.

# Steps

<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/document-listing/chapters/folder-5-combat-actions/steps/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




Steps are a special resource available to all functioning units on the field. Almost all actions require that you spend at least one step as part of performing those actions.
- You may have a maximum of 4 steps at any given time.
- You recover all steps at the beginning of your turn.

# Acting Outside Your Turn
If you forfeited a step during your turn (as in, ended your turn before using all steps you had), you can use it during the rest of the round. 
- The action can not cost more than one step.
- Performing the action always costs one step, even if it would normally be free.

In order to act outside your turn, you must make a mark 5 Sharpness test. If you succeed, you manage to act just before the event you reacted to. If you fail, you either waste the step, or act immediately after the event has concluded.

</div></div>

# Move Actions

<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/document-listing/chapters/folder-5-combat-actions/move-actions/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




When your unit is in a bad location on the map and you want to change it, you can spend resources to move.
- Moving always uses the unit's speed statistic to set the movement range. 
- The movement range may or may not be straight. It usually is not, allowing the unit to meander freely.

# Base Movement
During base movement, a unit spends 1 step to move up to its movement range.
- This movement must be horizontal, and must respect terrain rules.
- Occasional terrain elements, such as inclines, may allow vertical movement.
- Certain abilities and components modify the capabilities of base movement.

# Flight
If base movement is not enough, the unit can fly. This uses 1 step and 1 energy point.
- The movement can be horizontal, vertical, or both, in whichever order you wish.
- While an upward-angled boost can be narrated as such, it must be abstracted into a sum of horizontal and vertical movement, as normal.
- You may fly as high as 10 times your movement range in metres above the terrain level.

# Maintaining Flight
If you flew, you do not fall until the beginning of your next turn.
- If you wish, you may safely descend with double your speed. This costs no steps or energy.
- If you flew, and happen to occupy space above the max height limit, you descend safely right below it.
- If you do not wish to move from the currently occupied hex, you may spend 1 energy point without spending any steps. This extends your falling immunity to the beginning of your next turn.

# Forced Movement
Certain events, such as involuntary falling, count as forced movement. Forced movement does not use up your own resources in any capacity unless told otherwise. Usually, forced movement occurs outside your turn.

</div></div>

# Attack Actions

<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/document-listing/chapters/folder-5-combat-actions/attack-actions/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




When you have an enemy in sight and want to commence hostilities, you can spend resources to use one of your weapons to attack. The following standard resolution applies to all sorts of attack events, weapon use being only one among them.

# 1. Attack vs Dodge
Using a weapon requires that you designate a point of interest. If you are the aggressor, you Attack against Dodge. If you're being targeted, you Dodge against Attack. If the designation cannot evade, the mark is 0.
- Extreme: You score a Direct Hit on the designation and deal additional d4 damage as bonus modifier.
- Success: You score a normal hit on the designation and deal damage.
- Failure: You miss the designation. Do not apply any special effects reliant on hitting the designation. Other special effects may occur.

|              Attack               |             Dodge             |
| :-------------------------------: | :---------------------------: |
| Sharpness + Precision + Modifiers | Synergy + Evasion + Modifiers |


# 2. Damage
When a unit is damaged, it must be calculated. This is set as incoming damage. As an aggressor, you make an Incoming Damage test and compare it against Mitigation. If you're the one being harmed, Mitigate and compare the outcome against Incoming Damage. A damage test can ace, but it has no intrinsic extreme outcome.
- The unit reduces the incoming damage by its relevant defences, if any, and records the amount mitigated in this way, as it soon converts to impact. The remaining damage is subtracted from the unit's integrity points.
- If the unit has any sort of damage negation, it may apply before or after the mitigation. Negated damage is not recorded nor converted to impact. Note that mitigation and negation are two separate terms here.

|      Incoming Damage      |         Mitigation          |
| :-----------------------: | :-------------------------: |
| Weapon Damage + Modifiers | Smarts + Armour + Modifiers |



# 3. Impact
After the unit has taken damage (regardless if the damage reduced its integrity or not), it takes the recorded amount of damage its defences managed to mitigate as impact. The result is identical whether you are the aggressor or defender, the only thing that changes is who gets harmed.
- The unit takes the calculated impact, losing that amount of stability points, possibly staggering the unit.
- If the unit is already staggered, it cannot lose any more stability. Instead, the unit loses integrity points equal to the calculated impact.

|   Impact Taken   |
| :--------------: |
| Mitigated Damage |


</div></div>

# Utility Actions

<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/document-listing/chapters/folder-5-combat-actions/utility-actions/" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">




A utility action is one that does not fall under either attack or movement. These can vary, such as surveying the environment, or activating an expansion.


| Action        | Description             |
| ------------- | ----------------------- |
| [[Stabilise\|Stabilise]] | Recover some Stability. |



Currently, the only additional Utility action that does not prevent immediate demise is a mark 5 Smarts action to Survey. A success reveals cloaked units, if any exist within 50 metres. This detection cannot go through solid, non-transparent obstacles.


</div></div>
